# Airline-Data-Analysis-using-Hadoop-Framework

Apache Hadoop is a good choice for airline data analysis as it works for distributed big data. Apache Hadoop is an opensource software framework for distributed storage and largescale distributed processing of data sets on cluster. Hadoop runs application using the MapReduce algorithm, where the data is processed in parallel on different CPU nodes. In short, Hadoop framework is capable enough to develop application capable of running on cluster of computers and they could perform complete statistical analysis for huge amounts of data. Hadoop MapReduce is a software framework for easily writing applications which process big amount of data in parallel on large cluster (thousands of nodes) of commodity hardware in a reliable, fault-tolerant manner.

Data Analysis is a challenge in the era of varied inter-discipline though there is a specialization in the respective disciplines. Effective data analytics helps in analysing the data of any business system. But it is the big data which helps and axial rates the process of analysis of data paving way for a success of any business intelligence system. With the expansion of the industry, the data of the industry also expands. Then, it is increasingly difficult to handle huge amount of data that gets generated no matter what's the business is like, range of fields from social media to finance, flight data, environment and health. Big data can be used to assess risk in the insurance industry and to track reactions to products in real time. Big data is also used to monitor things as diverse as wave movements, flight data, traffic data, financial transactions, health and crime. The challenge of big data is how to use it to create something that is value to the user.
